Mail
----

.. figure:: /images/getting_started/section_mail.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The mail section.

The **mail** section is where you read, respond to, and initiate email
conversations. These conversations are shared with other workers in the
groups you are a member of.

There is a toolbar at the top left of the mail section with several
buttons:

-  *Send Mail* composes a new message to any number of contacts. Each
   contact will receive a copy of all future worker messages. The
   opening message will be outgoing and attributed to yourself. This
   should be how you start new conversations most of the time.
-  *Open Ticket* offers similar functionality to *Send Mail* with an
   important distinction: the conversation will be started as an
   incoming message attributed to the recipients. This is useful when
   you are creating a new conversation as a convenience for one of your
   contacts after discussing something on a phone call.
-  *Auto-Refresh* will automatically reload the page at the given
   interval. This is useful if you have multiple monitors and you want
   to be able to see new messages at a glance without manually reloading
   the page.

At the top right of the section there is a quick search text box. This
time-saving feature allows you to perform a search from most pages in
the mail section without having to navigate to the search page first.

The mail section is further divided by a series of tabs that provide
specialized functionality.

Workflow
========

The **Workflow** tab is where you will spend most of your time in the
mail section. It is optimized for working with a large volume of mail by
highlighting conversations that are immediately actionable.

In many environments there are conversations that sit idle for long
periods of time because they're waiting for something: a reply from a
customer, a worker task to be completed, or a specific date and time.
Additionally, there are several kinds of mail that may never need a
response but can't be closed without being reviewed: vendor newsletters,
receipts, or automated reports. This work should be moved to a bucket
that has been flagged by a group manager as being hidden from Workflow.

Workflow focuses on conversations that you can do something about by
enforcing the following criteria:

-  It must be open (not closed, or waiting for a contact to reply).
-  It must be located in an inbox, or a bucket that is not hidden from
   Workflow.

The key to the efficient use of Workflow is to have groups and buckets
that are organized by the process required to complete the work
contained within them. For example, if you have buckets like *Receipts*,
*New Orders*, and *Leads*, you can repeat the same process for each
message in a bucket, while also reusing any resources you need in order
to complete them.

You can also use the subtotals feature to group conversations based on
criterion other than bucket.

The last thing you want to be doing is competing with a dozen workers
who are randomly grabbing work. Cerb5 is not meant to be used in a
social vacuum. Find a co-worker and tell them "I'll handle the new
orders if you want to go through the leads". If your team is too large
to organize with an informal process, you should nominate a group
*dispatcher* to make assignments, or you should use a real-time,
group-wide communication tool like Campfire by 37signals
(http://www.campfirenow.com/).

Search Tickets
==============

The **Search Tickets** tab searches through the mail archive and
provides results as tickets. This means that even if multiple messages
from a conversation match they will be represented by a single result.

This is the best place to display all the conversations in the system,
regardless of their status or other factors that prevent them from being
displayed on the Workflow tab.

Search Messages
===============

The **Search Messages** tab searches through the mail archive and
provides results as messages. This is useful when you want to be able to
match individual messages on a conversation as distinct results.

This is the best place to display a list of outgoing messages that
behaves like a 'Sent' folder in a traditional email reader.

Drafts
======

The **Drafts** tab displays a worklist of messages that you have saved
but not yet sent. You can click on a draft to resume it.

Snippets
========

The **Snippets** tab manages fragments of text that can be reused in
various conversations. For example, when a customer asks for your price
list you can simply insert the 'Price Sheet' snippet rather than
monotonously typing it by hand or copying and pasting it from your
website. Snippets can also contain placeholder text that will change
depending on where they are used; for example, a ``{{first_name}}``
placeholder would be replaced by the first name of the contact you are
talking to.